Appendix 2. Positive Matrix Factorization for FTIR Spectra and Correlation to Elemental Concentrations
      Positive Matrix Factorization [Paatero and Tapper, 1994] was implemented as our multivariate curve resolution technique to statistically reduce our 128 ambient spectra into a few “components” that share significant covariation in absorbance across wave numbers. Baselined and smoothed sample spectra were provided to PMF as the data matrix. The scaling coefficient is the reciprocal of variance in analytical error (1/sigma squared), as determined by variability in baselining of blank sample spectra determined at each wave number. The scaling factor is estimated from possible baselining error at each wave number. A set of field blanks was collected with each sample, and spectra from these were baselined similarly to the sample spectra. On average, the baselining errors are zero at each wave number, but the variability about the mean is used to estimate the baselining error for each sample.
      We systematically explored the solution space of two parameters: number of factors (p) and rotation parameter (FPEAK). We applied singular value decomposition to the entire data set and also sectionally, by fixed-size moving window analysis [Keller and Massart, 1992]. The trace of eigenvalues in each case was used to constrain the value of p to those values which provided sufficient data reconstruction (approximately 90 percent data recovery). FPEAK was restricted to the domain in which the Q value (value of the least squares) objective function was comparable to or below the theoretical expected value defined by E(Q{^m}) = (n x m)-p(n+m). E(Q{^m}) is the expected value of the portion of Q (the objective function) that arises from the data-fitting (excluding penalty terms) and nxm are the dimensions of the data matrix.

References

Paatero, P., and U. Tapper (1994), Positive matrix factorization: A non-negative factor model with optimal utilization of error estimates of data values, Environmetrics, 5, 111–126, doi:10.1002/env.3170050203.
